docs: add outline for how to make a blostream rollup (#1155)
celestiaorg/docs: docs/developers/blobstream-rollup-outline.md

# Blobstream Demo Rollup

Rollups can use the Blobstream for DA by posting their data to Celestia and then
proving that it was posted on Ethereum. This is done identically to how any
rollup or user would post data to Celestia, and then the validators sign over
additional commitments that are relayed to Ethereum via a light client relay
(aka Blobstream!). This demo will outline (note outline is not an

> implementation! please do not expect to copy and paste this code 🙂) a very

Reviewer: :b:

We can then define the blockchain as a collection of blocks and some additional
information about the chain such as the sequencer address.

```go
type Blockchain struct {
    Blocks          []Block
    SequncerAddress []byte
    Namespace       []byte
}
```

## Rollup Sequencer

The rollup sequencer is responsible for creating blocks and, in this demo,
writing that data to Celestia and Ethereum. The rollup fullnode is responsible
for reading that data from Celestia and Ethereum and verifying that it follows
the protocol rules of that rollup.

Therefore we can start by first defining the reading and writing interations
rollup nodes will have with both the Celestia and Ethereum networks. The actual
implementations of these interfaces are left as excercises to the reader (🤪).
Assume that those implementations of these interfaces are verifying the
respective chain. For the connection to Celestia, this would likely mean
connecting to a Celestia Light Node, which can detect faults in consensus such
as hidden data. For the connection to Ethereum, this would likely mean running
and connecting to a fullnode. More information on the RPC that is exposed by a
Celestia Light Node can be found

> [here](https://node-rpc-docs.celestia.org/?version=v0.11.0), and more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the [rpc documentation](https://node-rpc-docs.celestia.org/?version=v0.11.0), and more
```

Reviewer: this is done [here](https://github.com/celestiaorg/docs/blob/f8cb1a50eca74d663d3fd19a3679c7274fe7707e/docs/developers/blobstream-offchain.md?plain=1#L105)

information on running one can be found

> [here](https://docs.celestia.org/nodes/light-node/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the [running a light node documentation](https://docs.celestia.org/nodes/light-node/).
```

Reviewer: same with this one 😄 https://github.com/celestiaorg/docs/blob/f8cb1a50eca74d663d3fd19a3679c7274fe7707e/docs/developers/blobstream-offchain.md?plain=1#L107

with clients to read from with Celestia and Ethereum.

```go
type Fullnode struct {
    Blockchain
    CelestiaLightNodeClient
    EthereumClient
}

// Sequencer wraps the demo Fullnode struct to add specific functionality for
// producing blocks.
type Sequencer struct {
    Fullnode
}
```

### Committing to Data

Typical blockchains commit to the transactions included in each block using a
merkle root. Rollups that use Blobstream for DA need to use the commitments that
are relayed to the Blobstream contracts.

For optimistic rollups, this could be as simple as referencing the data in the
celestia block, not unlike using a pointer in memory. This is what is done below
via a `Span` in the [Creating Blocks](#Creating-Blocks) section. We keep track
of where the data is located in the celestia block and the sequencer signs over
that location in the header. If the sequencer commits to non-existent data or an
invalid state root, then the invalid transaction is first proved to be included
in the `Span` before the rest of the fraud proof process is followed. More
information on Blobstream fraud proofs can be found

> [here](https://github.com/celestiaorg/blobstream-contracts/blob/v3.0.0/docs/inclusion-proofs.md#blobstream-fraud-proofs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the [inclusion proofs documentation](https://github.com/celestiaorg/blobstream-contracts/blob/v3.0.0/docs/inclusion-proofs.md#blobstream-fraud-proofs).
```

Reviewer: 98018e5170786f86d39c4609432b7e04f1e6f248

For zk rollups, this would involve creating an inclusion proof to the data root
tuple root in the Blobstream contracts, and then verifying that proof in the zk
proof used to verify state. More information on inclusion proofs can be found

> [here](https://github.com/celestiaorg/blobstream-contracts/blob/master/docs/inclusion-proofs.md#1-data-root-inclusion-proof).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the [data root inclusion proof documentation](https://github.com/celestiaorg/blobstream-contracts/blob/master/docs/inclusion-proofs.md#1-data-root-inclusion-proof).
```

Reviewer: 98018e5170786f86d39c4609432b7e04f1e6f248

contracts are updated, the sequencer can post the header to Ethereum.

```go
func (s *Sequencer) UpdateHeaders() error {
    latestRollupHeight, err := s.EthereumClient.LatestRollupHeight()
    if err != nil {
        return err
    }

    for i := latestRollupHeight; i <= uint64(len(s.Blocks)+1); i++ {
        err := s.EthereumClient.SubmitHeader(s.Blocks[i].Header)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }
    }

    return nil
}
```

## Rollup Fullnode

### Downloading the Block

There are a few different mechanisms that could be used to download blocks. The
simplest solution and what is outlined above is for Fullnodes to wait until the
blocks and the headers are posted to the respective chains, and then download
each as they are posted. It would also be possible to gossip the headers ahead
of time, and download the rollup blocks from Celestia instead of waiting for the
headers to be posted to Ethereum. It's also possible to download the headers and
the block data like a normal blockchain via a gossiping network and only fall
back to downloading the data and headers from Celestia and Ethereum if the

> gossiping network is unavailable or the Seuqencer is malicious.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gossiping network is unavailable or the Sequencer is malicious.
```

Reviewer: 98018e5170786f86d39c4609432b7e04f1e6f248
